<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">

<topic id="doc-8227ce9a">
  <title>1. Overview</title>
  <body>
    <p>Gmail</p>
    <p>Installation &amp; Setup Guide</p>
    <p>Technical Documentation | Version 1.0 | April 2026</p>
    <p>Gmail is a free email service developed by Google. It is available as a web application and a mobile application for Android and iOS. This document provides step-by-step technical instructions for installing Gmail across all major platforms — Android, iOS, Windows (desktop client), macOS, and web browsers.</p>
    <section id="section-6990ef">
      <title>2.1 Android</title>
    </section>
    <section id="section-55792c">
      <title>2.2 iOS (iPhone / iPad)</title>
    </section>
    <section id="section-819a98">
      <title>2.3 Windows Desktop (via Web or PWA)</title>
    </section>
    <section id="section-28a890">
      <title>2.4 macOS</title>
    </section>
    <section id="section-7bdf41">
      <title>3.1 Via Google Play Store</title>
      <p>Gmail comes pre-installed on most Android devices. If not present, follow these steps:</p>
      <p>Unlock your Android device and open the Google Play Store app.</p>
      <p>Tap the Search bar at the top of the screen.</p>
      <p>Type "Gmail" and press Enter or tap the Search icon.</p>
      <p>Locate the official Gmail app published by "Google LLC" in the search results.</p>
      <p>Tap the "Install" button. The app will begin downloading automatically.</p>
      <p>Once installation is complete, tap the Gmail icon on your home screen or app drawer to launch it.</p>
      <p>Sign in with your Google Account credentials (email and password). Tap "Next" to proceed.</p>
      <p>Follow the on-screen prompts to complete account setup and grant necessary permissions.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section-d58377">
      <title>3.2 Manual APK Installation (Advanced)</title>
      <p>For devices without Google Play Store access, Gmail can be installed via APK:</p>
      <p>Download the Gmail APK from a trusted source such as APKMirror.</p>
      <p>Navigate to Settings &gt; Security &gt; Enable 'Install from Unknown Sources'.</p>
      <p>Locate the downloaded APK file using a file manager and tap it to install.</p>
      <p>Follow on-screen prompts to complete installation.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section-e713a4">
      <title>4.1 Via Apple App Store</title>
      <p>Open the App Store on your iPhone or iPad.</p>
      <p>Tap the Search icon (magnifying glass) at the bottom of the screen.</p>
      <p>Enter "Gmail" in the search bar and tap Search.</p>
      <p>Select the Gmail app from Google LLC from the search results.</p>
      <p>Tap the "Get" button (or the cloud icon if previously downloaded). Authenticate with Face ID, Touch ID, or your Apple ID password.</p>
      <p>Wait for the download and installation to complete.</p>
      <p>Open Gmail from your home screen. Sign in with your Google Account or create a new one.</p>
      <p>Grant requested permissions (Contacts, Notifications, Face ID) as needed.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section-e3a825">
      <title>5.1 Accessing Gmail via Web Browser</title>
      <p>Gmail is fully functional in any modern web browser and does not require a dedicated desktop client.</p>
      <p>Open your preferred browser (Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, or Firefox).</p>
      <p>Navigate to https://mail.google.com in the address bar.</p>
      <p>Sign in with your Google Account email and password.</p>
      <p>Gmail will load in your browser. Bookmark the page for quick access.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section-c5790b">
      <title>5.2 Installing Gmail as a Progressive Web App (PWA) on Windows</title>
      <p>A PWA allows Gmail to run as a standalone app outside the browser window:</p>
      <section id="section-d6aa85">
        <title>Using Google Chrome:</title>
        <p>Open Google Chrome and navigate to https://mail.google.com.</p>
        <p>Sign in to your Google Account.</p>
        <p>Click the install icon (computer with a download arrow) in the address bar, or click the three-dot menu and select 'Install Gmail'.</p>
        <p>Click "Install" in the confirmation dialog.</p>
        <p>Gmail will open as a standalone window and a shortcut will be created on your Desktop and Start Menu.</p>
        <section id="section-9510a4">
          <title>Using Microsoft Edge:</title>
          <p>Open Microsoft Edge and go to https://mail.google.com.</p>
          <p>Sign in to your Google Account.</p>
          <p>Click the three-dot menu (...) in the top right corner.</p>
          <p>Select "Apps" &gt; "Install this site as an app".</p>
          <p>Click "Install" to confirm. A Gmail shortcut will be added to your taskbar and Start Menu.</p>
        </section>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="section-4521d0">
      <title>6.1 Accessing Gmail via Safari or Chrome</title>
      <p>Open Safari, Google Chrome, or Firefox on your Mac.</p>
      <p>Navigate to https://mail.google.com.</p>
      <p>Sign in with your Google Account credentials.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section-bc5e91">
      <title>6.2 Installing Gmail as a PWA on macOS (Chrome)</title>
      <p>Open Google Chrome and visit https://mail.google.com.</p>
      <p>Sign in to your Google Account.</p>
      <p>Click the install icon in the Chrome address bar (or go to the three-dot menu &gt; 'Install Gmail').</p>
      <p>Click 'Install' to confirm. Gmail will open as a standalone macOS application.</p>
      <p>A Gmail icon will appear in your Dock and Applications folder for easy access.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section-d06e17">
      <title>6.3 Configuring Gmail in Apple Mail (Optional)</title>
      <p>You can also add Gmail to the native Apple Mail application as an alternative:</p>
      <p>Open System Settings &gt; Internet Accounts.</p>
      <p>Click the '+' button and select Google.</p>
      <p>Enter your Gmail address and click Next.</p>
      <p>Enter your Google Account password and complete two-factor authentication if prompted.</p>
      <p>Toggle 'Mail' to ON to sync Gmail with the Apple Mail app.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section-f53f71">
      <title>7.1 Account Setup</title>
      <p>Add a profile picture via your Google Account settings.</p>
      <p>Set up a signature: Open Gmail &gt; Settings (gear icon) &gt; See all settings &gt; General &gt; Signature.</p>
      <p>Configure vacation responder: Settings &gt; General &gt; Vacation responder.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section-6eddf9">
      <title>7.2 Enable Two-Factor Authentication (Recommended)</title>
      <p>Go to https://myaccount.google.com/security.</p>
      <p>Under "How you sign in to Google", select 2-Step Verification.</p>
      <p>Click Get started and follow the instructions to set up a verification method (authenticator app, SMS, or security key).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section-f41a09">
      <title>7.3 Managing Notifications</title>
      <p>Android / iOS: Go to device Settings &gt; Notifications &gt; Gmail. Toggle notification types on or off.</p>
      <p>Desktop PWA: Gmail Settings &gt; See all settings &gt; General &gt; Desktop Notifications. Grant browser permission when prompted.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section-74b7c4">
      <title>9.1 Android</title>
      <p>Go to Settings &gt; Apps &gt; Gmail &gt; Uninstall. Note: On some devices, Gmail may be a system app and only allow 'Disable'.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section-387e02">
      <title>9.2 iOS</title>
      <p>Long-press the Gmail app icon &gt; Tap 'Remove App' &gt; Tap 'Delete App' to confirm.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section-d3daac">
      <title>9.3 Windows / macOS PWA</title>
      <p>Open the Gmail PWA window &gt; Click the three-dot menu &gt; Uninstall / Remove from Chrome.</p>
      <p>Alternatively, locate Gmail in your Applications (macOS) or Start Menu (Windows) and delete the shortcut.</p>
      <p>For further assistance, refer to the following official resources:</p>
      <p>Gmail Help Center: https://support.google.com/mail</p>
      <p>Google Account Help: https://support.google.com/accounts</p>
      <p>Google Workspace Admin Help: https://support.google.com/a</p>
      <p>Gmail Community Forum: https://support.google.com/mail/community</p>
      <p>End of Document | Gmail Installation Guide v1.0 | April 2026</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Document Info</entry>
              <entry>Details</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Product</entry>
              <entry>Gmail (Google Mail)</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Developer</entry>
              <entry>Google LLC</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Platforms</entry>
              <entry>Android, iOS, Windows, macOS, Linux (Web)</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Access Type</entry>
              <entry>Free / Google Workspace</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Document Version</entry>
              <entry>1.0</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Last Updated</entry>
              <entry>April 2026</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Requirement</entry>
              <entry>Specification</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>OS Version</entry>
              <entry>Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) or higher</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Storage Space</entry>
              <entry>Minimum 50 MB free</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Internet</entry>
              <entry>Active Wi-Fi or mobile data</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Google Account</entry>
              <entry>Required for sign-in</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Requirement</entry>
              <entry>Specification</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>OS Version</entry>
              <entry>iOS 16.0 or higher</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Storage Space</entry>
              <entry>Minimum 150 MB free</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Internet</entry>
              <entry>Active Wi-Fi or cellular data</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Apple ID</entry>
              <entry>Required for App Store download</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Requirement</entry>
              <entry>Specification</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>OS Version</entry>
              <entry>Windows 10 or Windows 11</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Browser</entry>
              <entry>Google Chrome 90+, Edge 90+, Firefox 88+</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>RAM</entry>
              <entry>Minimum 4 GB</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Internet</entry>
              <entry>Broadband connection recommended</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Requirement</entry>
              <entry>Specification</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>OS Version</entry>
              <entry>macOS Monterey (12.0) or higher</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Browser</entry>
              <entry>Safari 16+, Chrome 90+, Firefox 88+</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Storage Space</entry>
              <entry>Minimum 100 MB (PWA install)</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Internet</entry>
              <entry>Active internet connection</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="1">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>📝 NOTE: Gmail requires permission to access your Contacts, Storage, and Microphone for full functionality. These can be individually managed in your device Settings &gt; Apps &gt; Gmail &gt; Permissions.</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody/>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="1">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>📝 NOTE: Installing APKs from unofficial sources carries security risks. This method is not recommended for enterprise or managed devices.</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody/>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="1">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>📝 NOTE: If you manage multiple Google accounts, you can add them all within Gmail by going to Menu &gt; Profile icon &gt; Add another account.</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody/>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="1">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>📝 NOTE: PWA installations sync with your Gmail account in real-time and support desktop notifications for new emails when configured.</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody/>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Issue</entry>
              <entry>Resolution</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>App not found on Play Store / App Store</entry>
              <entry>Ensure your device OS meets the minimum requirements and your store region supports Gmail.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Unable to sign in</entry>
              <entry>Verify your Google Account credentials. Check if 2FA is enabled and complete the verification step.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Gmail app crashes on launch</entry>
              <entry>Clear app cache: Settings &gt; Apps &gt; Gmail &gt; Storage &gt; Clear Cache. Reinstall if issue persists.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>PWA not installing on browser</entry>
              <entry>Ensure you are using a supported browser version (Chrome 90+ or Edge 90+) and that you are signed into Gmail.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Emails not syncing</entry>
              <entry>Check your internet connection. Go to Gmail Settings &gt; Accounts and ensure sync is enabled.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Push notifications not received</entry>
              <entry>Check device notification permissions for Gmail and ensure Background App Refresh is enabled (iOS).</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>