<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="gmail-installation-guide">
  <title>NewGmail Installation & Setup Guide</title>
  <body>
    <section id="overview">
      <title>1. Overview</title>
      <p>NewGmail is a free email service developed by NewGoogle. It is available as a web application and a mobile application for Android and iOS. This document provides step-by-step technical instructions for installing NewGmail across all major platforms — Android, iOS, Windows (desktop client), macOS, and web browsers.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section id="system-requirements">
      <title>2. System Requirements</title>
      
      <section id="android-requirements">
        <title>2.1 Android</title>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1"/>
            <colspec colname="col2"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Requirement</entry>
                <entry>Specification</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>OS Version</entry>
                <entry>Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) or higher</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Storage Space</entry>
                <entry>Minimum 50 MB free</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Internet</entry>
                <entry>Active Wi-Fi or mobile data</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>NewGoogle Account</entry>
                <entry>Required for sign-in</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
      
      <section id="ios-requirements">
        <title>2.2 iOS (iPhone / iPad)</title>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1"/>
            <colspec colname="col2"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Requirement</entry>
                <entry>Specification</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>OS Version</entry>
                <entry>iOS 16.0 or higher</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Storage Space</entry>
                <entry>Minimum 150 MB free</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Internet</entry>
                <entry>Active Wi-Fi or cellular data</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Apple ID</entry>
                <entry>Required for App Store download</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
    
    <section id="installation-android">
      <title>3. Installation on Android</title>
      
      <section id="android-play-store">
        <title>3.1 Via NewGoogle Play Store</title>
        <p>NewGmail comes pre-installed on most Android devices. If not present, follow these steps:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Unlock your Android device and open the NewGoogle Play Store app.</li>
          <li>Tap the Search bar at the top of the screen.</li>
          <li>Type "NewGmail" and press Enter or tap the Search icon.</li>
          <li>Locate the official NewGmail app published by "NewGoogle Inc." in the search results.</li>
          <li>Tap the "Install" button. The app will begin downloading automatically.</li>
          <li>Once installation is complete, tap the NewGmail icon on your home screen or app drawer to launch it.</li>
          <li>Sign in with your NewGoogle Account credentials (email and password). Tap "Next" to proceed.</li>
          <li>Follow the on-screen prompts to complete account setup and grant necessary permissions.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>NewGmail requires permission to access your Contacts, Storage, and Microphone for full functionality. These can be individually managed in your device Settings > Apps > NewGmail > Permissions.</p>
      </section>
    </section>
    
    <section id="installation-windows">
      <title>5. Installation on Windows (PWA & Browser)</title>
      
      <section id="windows-web-browser">
        <title>5.1 Accessing NewGmail via Web Browser</title>
        <p>NewGmail is fully functional in any modern web browser and does not require a dedicated desktop client.</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Open your preferred browser (NewGoogle Chrome, Microsoft Edge, or Firefox).</li>
          <li>Navigate to https://mail.newgoogle.com in the address bar.</li>
          <li>Sign in with your NewGoogle Account email and password.</li>
          <li>NewGmail will load in your browser. Bookmark the page for quick access.</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      
      <section id="windows-pwa">
        <title>5.2 Installing NewGmail as a Progressive Web App (PWA) on Windows</title>
        <p>A PWA allows NewGmail to run as a standalone app outside the browser window:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Open NewGoogle Chrome and navigate to https://mail.newgoogle.com.</li>
          <li>Sign in to your NewGoogle Account.</li>
          <li>Click the install icon (computer with a download arrow) in the address bar, or click the three-dot menu and select 'Install NewGmail'.</li>
          <li>Click "Install" in the confirmation dialog.</li>
          <li>NewGmail will open as a standalone window and a shortcut will be created on your Desktop and Start Menu.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>PWA installations sync with your NewGmail account in real-time and support desktop notifications for new emails when configured.</p>
      </section>
    </section>
    
    <section id="post-installation">
      <title>7. Post-Installation Configuration</title>
      
      <section id="account-setup">
        <title>7.1 Account Setup</title>
        <ul>
          <li>Add a profile picture via your NewGoogle Account settings.</li>
          <li>Set up a signature: Open NewGmail > Settings (gear icon) > See all settings > General > Signature.</li>
          <li>Configure vacation responder: Settings > General > Vacation responder.</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      
      <section id="two-factor-auth">
        <title>7.2 Enable Two-Factor Authentication (Recommended)</title>
        <ul>
          <li>Go to https://myaccount.newgoogle.com/security.</li>
          <li>Under "How you sign in to NewGoogle", select 2-Step Verification.</li>
          <li>Click Get started and follow the instructions to set up a verification method (authenticator app, SMS, or security key).</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
    </section>
    
    <section id="support">
      <title>10. Support & Resources</title>
      <p>For further assistance, refer to the following official resources:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>NewGmail Help Center: https://support.newgoogle.com/mail</li>
        <li>NewGoogle Account Help: https://support.newgoogle.com/accounts</li>
        <li>NewGoogle Workspace Admin Help: https://support.newgoogle.com/a</li>
        <li>NewGmail Community Forum: https://support.newgoogle.com/mail/community</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
